Dave Mateer – Brought up near Glasgow… lived in New Zealand for 8 years.  Now live near Brighton… this isn’t Brighton

Degree is in Mechanical Engineering – worked offshore in Norway in oil business.
Worked as an outdoor instructor in UK, Sri Lanka and did Raleigh expeditions
Got into IT/Software in 1999 – 15 years.
Transitioned into a Dot Net developer since .NET2 days

Worked for small companies in UK, freelancer in Australia for 6 months, and NZ for 4 years..
--------
3

Now I work for Quorum – Edinburgh based company.  40 people.  10 developers.  Major clients are large financial institutions
40 Person company in EdinburghOffice in Brighton (3 people)
Enterprise Apps

Old technology
Hacked together by many many people
Crucial to the business
Throw hardware at solutions to get them to perform (perf usually an issue)
Business logic in SP’s

We come in and try to solve these issues

Over last 15 years I’ve found that most apps I develop are CRUDy – Create Read Update Delete

-------------
4
Now I work for Quorum – Edinburgh based company.  40 people.  10 developers.  Major clients are large financial institutions
40 Person company in EdinburghOffice in Brighton (3 people)
Enterprise Apps

Old technology
Hacked together by many many people
Crucial to the business
Throw hardware at solutions to get them to perform (perf usually an issue)
Business logic in SP’s

We come in and try to solve these issues

Over last 15 years I’ve found that most apps I develop are CRUDy – Create Read Update Delete


------------
5. Who has used ASP.NET MVC before?
Who is here because they thought this session may have good jokes?

--------------
6.
Even if you’re a beginner swordsman, or an expert

Good News!!!

There is something here for everyone – the super experts, to the person who wants a new joke… we can always learn something from everyone.

Request – Please stop me if you’re confused, as someone else will be too.


-------------------
7. Confession
I like bad jokes!

9. Brown and Sticky

-----------
12 Taj
New MVC Project and solution called Dog
View website
Login as a user
View database

13. Source
Add to git
Get it offsite onto github asap so can show it to friends at work or whatever
Bitbucket another alternative

------
14 PRoblem

Like in developing business apps, I always write down the problem:

Ok that shouldn’t be too hard…

Slam a website together that works ok on my phone, in a weekend and it should be ok!

Hmm – maybe not.. Lets take this opportunity to play with code…  

How about I call it Winter Project and spend a few months playing..

How about I model the project on what I do at work

Enterprisey
ASP.NET MVC (couldn’t get Nancy / Mono etc.. Into these classic institutions)
SQL Server (they’ve usually got it already)
Base it on my experience of what Enterprise apps need to be… ie
KISS
Development vs Maintenance costs.. Up to 80% of a projects costs are in maintenance
Overseas developers
Many developers jump in from 1 to 6 months to make small change

http://stackoverflow.com/questions/3477706/development-cost-versus-maintenance-cost

------------
16. Pluralsight
Copy others
Pluralsight
Great MVC Sample code
Contoso University
http://www.asp.net/mvc/tutorials/getting-started-with-ef-using-mvc/creating-an-entity-framework-data-model-for-an-asp-net-mvc-application
SutekiShop
MVC3, Nhibernate, Windsor, Nunit, Rhino Mocks


K Scott Allen is a great educator!

ASP.NET MVC5 Fundamentals – 6 hours
Building Apps in MVC4 – 7 hours
ASP.NET MVC4 Fundamentals – 4 hours
Intro to MVC3 – 6 hours

nTier – Steve Smith
Testing – Jessie Liberty

DDD – Rob Conery

IoC http://pluralsight.com/training/Courses/Description/ioc-aspdotnet-mvc4

If you’re not a member, 200minutes free trial or look for giveaway tokens for a month..   Or get your work to pay for it recurringly £30 per month

So watched all of these, did lots of reading.. Took about 4 weeks to get something going…

 and then Solution number 1 (winter)was like this:

MVC 5 – New Authorisation model
Seed method
Azure – website free (10 per person)
Glimpse
Caching
PagedList.Mvc
ELMAH (Error Logging Modules and Handlers)
BitBucket (good for private repos for free)
StructureMap
Repository Pattern


--------------
17

Inspired by Pluralsight videos and K Scott Allen

view
	1break apart
	controller
	IRepository<T>
		UoW
		Repository
		both
	validation
	test
-----------------
19 - Show Code
Show code from Top
View
Controller
WinterDb (Irepo<T>)
Model – Story
Tests – StoryControllerTests.. 
	given a valid story
	given invalid story
TDD style – from point of view of what the application should do
Complexity – IoC..broken somewhere..

----------------
25 - Breaks idea of repository as works on a single class
Not transactional..repo methods should be atomic
- allows flush of UoW
Iqueryable so can tweak query with where clauses..breaks repo encapsulation
- extra layer of abstratcion

------------
27 - Have you heard the joke about the boomerang?
It’ll come back to you…

29 - View Model
webgrid
html helpers

IoC - repo and UoW FActory

IQueryable 
PagerModel abstraction

PeopleRepository
Repository base

Domain Entity and Value Objects

Validation
	look in person
	
------------
32 - Project 3
Have a play – some good jokes on here ?

Try to upvote – you may see some business logic!


-------------
33- jokes, videos , images

----------
36 -
View
Controller
Service
	3 - UoW.. KISS!

Validation
	looks different - just simple dataannotations here!

Service
	ahh - using object composition to help
	so.. validation handled by the service
	
Tests
	xunit
	4 - tests from the users point of view ie behaviour of system
	
	5 - integration tests are awesome

Console app
	validation is in service - can call my api to insert
	show it working
	
Authorisation
	shared view to display menu
	Story controller

Shiny
	EnumDropdown helper
-------------

37 - Jeff Bezos
Jeff Bezos – CEO of Amazon

“Start with the customer and work backwards”

Easy to remember URL
Show all Jokes on 1 page
Default to highest rating first
Can see most recently added Jokes
Be able to anonymously vote for a Joke
Be able to CRUD jokes as an admin
Easy maintainable system can hand over to another developer



--------------------
39 - Two aerials meet on a roof, fall in love get married. The ceremony wasn't much but the reception was brilliant.

-----------
41 - 
Enjoy Programming!!!

Ok but how…. I’m working in VB.NET on VS2005 for my day job, on a windows XP VM with 756MB of RAM…. Using ClearCase source control…???!!!!

John Resig – author of jQuery.. Hacker news…


Started getting up early… 5:45am seems okay for me.  6am-7:30am code

Take Ellie a cup of tea in bed!

Don’t check emails
Just try to code on your fun project


---------
42 - John Resig author of jQuery

Last fall, work on my coding side projects came to a head: I wasn’t making adequate progress and I couldn’t find a way to get more done without sacrificing my ability to do effective work at Khan Academy.
There were a few major problems with how I was working on my side projects. I was primarily working on them during the weekends and sometimes in the evenings during the week. This is a strategy that does not work well for me, as it turns out. I was burdened with an incredible amount of stress to try and complete as much high quality work as possible during the weekend (and if I was unable to it felt like a failure). This was a problem as there’s no guarantee that every weekend will be free – nor that I’ll want to program all day for two days (removing any chance of relaxation or doing anything fun).

There’s also the issue that a week between working on some code is a long time, it’s very easy to forget what you were working on or what you left off on (even if you keep notes). Not to mention if you miss a weekend you end up with a two week gap as a result. That massive multi-week context switch can be deadly (I’ve had many side projects die due to attention starvation like that).

Inspired by the incredible work that Jennifer Dewalt completed last year, in which she taught herself programming by building 180 web sites in 180 days, I felt compelled to try a similar tactic: working on my side projects every single day.












	





	
	








